# BIOMD0000000507: MODEL1401190000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000507.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000507.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Gardner2000 - genetic toggle switch in E.coli

The behaviour of the genetic toggle switch and the conditions for bistability
has been studies using a synthetic, bistable gene circuit.

This model is described in the article:

[Construction of a genetic toggle switch in Escherichia
coli.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/10659857)

Gardner TS, Cantor CR, Collins JJ

Nature. 2000 Jan 20;403(6767):339-42.

Abstract:

It has been proposed' that gene-regulatory circuits with virtually any desired
property can be constructed from networks of simple regulatory elements. These
properties, which include multistability and oscillations, have been found in
specialized gene circuits such as the bacteriophage lambda switch and the
Cyanobacteria circadian oscillator. However, these behaviours have not been
demonstrated in networks of non-specialized regulatory components. Here we
present the construction of a genetic toggle switch-a synthetic, bistable
gene-regulatory network-in Escherichia coli and provide a simple theory that
predicts the conditions necessary for bistability. The toggle is constructed
from any two repressible promoters arranged in a mutually inhibitory network.
It is flipped between stable states using transient chemical or thermal
induction and exhibits a nearly ideal switching threshold. As a practical
device, the toggle switch forms a synthetic, addressable cellular memory unit
and has implications for biotechnology, biocomputing and gene therapy.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000507](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000507) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


